---
layout: post
title: Python Dynamic DNS
date: 2022-05-20 00:34
category: 
author: 
tags: [python, api, dyndns]
summary: Python Dynamic DNS with the Cloudflare API
---

Python based Dynamic DNS Application that works with the Cloudflare API.

# Why?

I initially started this project so I could update my Cloudflare DNS without using an outside account. So I decided it couldn't that hard.

# Begin

I started by setting up my config files and the parts to read from the easily and effectively. Then I downloaded and started playing with [python-cloudflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/python-cloudflare)... turns out it is *very* difficult to use and decode what is happening within it. So I decided that I would write a miniaturized version of it for myself to use utilizing the [requests API](https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/). In my opinion my code is much cleaner and more readable than that written by Cloudflare. Take a look at this example to delete a DNS record.

#### Cloudflare

    import sys
    import CloudFlare

    def main():
        zone_name = sys.argv[1]
        cf = CloudFlare.CloudFlare()
        zone_info = cf.zones.get(params={'name': zone_name})
        zone_id = zone_info['id']

        dns_name = sys.argv[2]
        dns_records = cf.zones.dns_records.get(zone_id, params={'name':dns_name + '.' + zone_name})
        for dns_record in dns_records:
            dns_record_id = dns_record['id']
            r = cf.zones.dns_records.delete(zone_id, dns_record_id)
        exit(0)

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        main()

#### My Code

    import network.Remote # This is what it is called within this project.

    def main():
        cf = Remote(token, zone_name)
        cf.updateLocalRecords()
        cf.delete(dns_name)
        exit(0)

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        main()

# Thoughts

I enjoyed doing this project, it allowed me to learn more about the rest API system as well as gain a stronger understanding of python requests. After doing this project and getting it to a v1.0.0 release I have decided that I should work on a Python API wrapper for the Cloudflare API becasue of just how atrocious the one by Cloudflare was written.

# GitHub

This project is up on GitHub [here](https://github.com/Scotten-Labs/py-dyndns) and the latest version can be downloaded [here](https://github.com/Scotten-Labs/py-dyndns/releases/latest).
